End of Disk Usage
=================
v2025.65.1

The files in this sub-directory can be used as templates to 
create hidden user-date volumes in the unused space at the end of 
many live-system images which have been written to a larger USB 
thumb drive.

In such cases, it is often not possible to create new partitions 
for the unused space, because the live system expects a certain 
partition layout which must not be altered.

In other cases, the whole medium is used as kind of a "super 
floppy" which no partition table at all.

Nevertheless, in those cases it is still possible to maintain a 
user data volume at the end of the medium, using the files in 
this directory.

"plan.txt" is an example of a disk layout plan for a USB thumb 
drive where the most part of the medium is filled with a CD-ROM 
image. But after that image, a hidden user-data volume is 
present, and a notice how to mount the hidden volume is present 
at the last sectors of the medium where it can easily be found 
with "dd".

To be more specific, ISO image is followed by the user-data 
volume, which is followed by 64 KiB where the end-of-disk layout 
plan and scripts are stored as a *.tar.gz archive, and the last 2 
KiB of space are filled with the aforementioned notice which 
explains how to access the information which is not part of any 
partition table.

"mknotice" is a script which invokes the "mkplan" script 
internally for processing the contents of file "plan.txt" and 
then further processes the output of that script. The final 
result will be a 4 KiB long text which is written to standard 
output.

This text must be placed in the last 4 KiB of the medium, and 
contains itself the instructions how to do that. The same text 
can be read back from there later as the file "THIS_notice.txt". 
Instructions how to do that are also contained in the text 
itself.

Also be sure to read the comments at the end of "plan.txt". It 
describes which scripts and files go where. The resulting 
information is supposed to be self-contained, which means it can 
be adapted to other thumb drives without access to THIS 
repository.
